So let's start the problem.
So what's the problem?
So if you're here, this is
an advanced web performance workshop,
you already know some things.
For example, you already know
that your users are actually sad.
So you already know that you're losing
money, maybe not you, maybe the company
you're working for or the customer
that you're making websites for.
Someone is losing money.
Why?
Because the web is slow.
What you're doing is slow.
I'm sorry to be hard on this, but you're
making slow websites, that's the average.
Don't feel so bad yet about that.
So the web is slow, and
that has been proven.
I'm not going to take too
much time on that today, but
it has been proven that that
leads to less conversion.
Whatever conversion means for your
website, it can be less users registering
to the side, user buying less user,
playing with your content,
reading content, watching ads wherever,
wherever conversion means for you.
We have less of that,
if your website is slow, okay?
So and also it's mostly front end
responsibility that some people,
when you're getting into web
development sometimes you feel that web
performance is not about the front end.
Sometimes you feel it's above
the database, the cloud, the server.
Of course, you might have server issues
because that's also possible, but
that's not typically the case.
When we have performance
problems in our websites,
it's typically because of bad
front end decisions, okay?
And that's I mean, in this,
let's talk about a discipline.
So web performance is a discipline
where performance optimization.
That hasn't been in the web
development area for
probably 15 years before HTML5,
let's say take one moment in history,
when we were talking about performance,
it was about Apache,
and how to make faster queries in MySQL or
things like that.
We're talking about the backend,
we go with thought that performance
had to do with server issues.
And sometimes that was a problem, but
it wasn't the biggest problem, okay?
And we will see why in a minute.
So and I know that you're
already doing a couple of stuff,
that's why you're here, right?
So for example, you're already
optimizing the network transfer.
If you know what that is,
we will see in a minute.
You're already working with TLS and
HTTP/2, at least TLS is HTTPS.
So you have like a secure origin, okay?
We will get deeper on each
of these topics, okay?
So you have time to ask questions anyway.
You're already using CSS as an appetizer.
So appetizers should be first and
typically small.
It's not the main meal, okay?
So CSS should be first and small, and
we'll understand why in a minute.
JavaScript is dessert.
So typically,
it should go after the main meal, and
also it typically also small
compared with the main meal, right?
So I'm you're really optimizing images,
like using the right format
with the right size, and
going through different compression tools.
You're already defining a policy for
HTTP cache.
I mean, that's because again,
you're in an advanced course, right?
You're doing this, right?
>> [LAUGH]
>> You're already using
service workers,
because that's kind of a base today for
websites that wanna run really,
really fast.
You're doing all of this, right?
Because I'm watching you.
So if we are all doing this stuff
that that's kind of a standard,
let's say checklist for
Web performance today.
What's the problem?
So where are we here?
Why are we still talking
about web performance?
So this data is actually really updated.
It's from yesterday.
So today, the medium on mobile devices for
time to interactive,
there is a metric that measures at which
point in the loading process
the website actually works.
So, I'm simplifying this,
but that means that,
the website is ready for interaction.
Maybe you have seen this in action when
you're trying to use a website, and
it doesn't scroll, you click,
and it doesn't click,
that's because it's not interactive.
Well, the median,
on mobile devices, yesterday,
was 12.5 seconds to get into having
a website completely interactive.
I know that some people
here in the room or
watching this video might be thinking,
that's fast.
I don't know, because we don't know
what we believe is actually fast.
So to prove if this is fast or
not, let's see in a timer,
let's feel the pain of
12.5 seconds of silence.
You feel it, right?
So, that's 12.5 seconds, and
that's actually the median on how much
time it takes to get a website interactive
on a mobile device on real user.
This is a real user metric.
So, this is measured on real devices,
on real network,
with real users, with real websites.
It's not in the lab.
So we have a problem because
that's a lot of time, okay?
Also, the average time to load
the mobile landing page disease
is actually from exactly
before the COVID pandemic, but
it's not better now,
it's 22 seconds, okay?
So on the mobile landing page most of
the time or sometimes comes from an app.
So you have a company that is paying for
an ad and then for
22 seconds no one is like
seeing the whole content.
Of course, I'm not yet
explaining what's load,
because it's a technical concept,
loading a page, but
we're not exactly sure what load means for
the user.
We will talk about metrics
in a couple of minutes.
There are a lot of
researches on this thing.
And for example, there is a nice
research that was done by Shopify
thing where they did a research
with real people on tables
like browsing websites, and
they realize that for users,
they feel like the website is
loaded when the images are loaded.
When all the images appears on the screen,
users typically feel that okay,
now we can use it.
So as web developers probably
we know that that's not real.
Actually you can start using the websites
before the machines are ready, but
that's not important.
What matters is what the users
are actually feeling, okay?
So the same Google research says
that as page load time goes from
1 second to 10 seconds, the probability
of a mobile visitor to bounce,
so to get out of that website,
increases by 123%.
And again, think about that,
when we're talking about landing pages,
that's your moment of truth, that's
the moment where you need to get that user
because the user is there, you already
paid the cost to get the user there.
The cost can be real money on an ad.
The cost can be a mental cost to actually
the user goes into typing your URL or
clicking on a link, so there was a cost.
And then the user is getting there and is
going away because your website is slow.
There was also, it was like three or
four years ago thought that there
was a nice research on ads on TV for
different like sport events like
really large sport events worldwide.
It can be the FIFA World Cup or some other
events on each country that are important.
So they analyze the URLs that were on ads,
and they realized that
they were wasting money, because a lot
of those URLs were actually really slow.
So users were actually
maybe getting into the URL,
and they were bouncing immediately, okay?
So that's a waste of money.